---
title: 'Azeez Butali, DDS, PhD'
date_tdt: 2018-06-20T18:09:52.902Z
author: Kids First AOC
layout: news
permalink: /news/butalispotlight/
published: true
isPublic_b: true
releaseDate_tdt: 2018-10-23T11:00:00.000Z
category_txt: spotlight
teaser_list:
  - thumbnail_txt: __images/37c96030-ba7e-11e8-ba53-9bcf777eccbe.md
    headline_txt: >-
      "Kids First is a valuable program because it allows us to identify
      specific genomic variants that will drive future research on Orofacial
      Clefts (OFC)..." 
    button_txt: Read More
    link_txt: /news/butalispotlight/
    affiliation_txt: University of Iowa
    focus_txt: Craniofacial Genetics
spotlightType_txt: investigator
subCollectionType_txt: Investigator
feature_b: false

---













<blockquote>
    <p><em>“ Kids First is a valuable program because it allows us to identify specific genomic variants that will drive future research on Orofacial Clefts (OFC) and will eventually lead to more effective interventions to reduce the risk of OFC. It also provides an opportunity to collaborate widely within and outside academia where the patients and their families are at the core of the discovery and translation. ”</em> - Dr. Azeez Butali </p>
</blockquote>


[IMAGE_LEFT__images/37c96030-ba7e-11e8-ba53-9bcf777eccbe.md]

Dr. Butali directs the African Craniofacial Anomalies Network, a collaboration between scientists in Ghana, Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria, and Rwanda. His research, "Genetic Studies of Non-syndromic Clefts in Populations of African Descent," is currently funded through a K99/R00 award from the National Institute for Dental and Craniofacial Research. His studies use a variety of techniques and approaches, including next generation sequencing approaches. He is also involved in the investigation of subclinical phenotypes for orofacial clefts as well as examining the role of micronutrients in oral clefts prevention. Other interests include genetics of aggressive periodontitis and genetics of preterm births in the African population. He is currently collaborating with researchers in Nigeria, Ghana, Ethiopia, South Africa, Rwanda, Kenya, Dundee (Scotland), Seattle (WA), Pittsburgh (PA), and Puerto Rico.