---
title: Biden Cancer Summit- Kids First DRC Commitment
date_tdt: 2018-09-21T18:09:00.000Z
author: AOC Jena
layout: news
permalink: /news/Biden/
published: true
isPublic_b: true
releaseDate_tdt: 2018-09-21T11:00:00.000Z
category_txt: media
teaser_list:
  - thumbnail_txt: __images/0be08c40-bdd1-11e8-83c8-59ef3dddab18.md
    headline_txt: Biden Cancer Summit- Kids First DRC Commitment
    button_txt: Read more
    link_txt: /news/Biden/

---

[IMAGE_RIGHT__images/3aae0de0-bdd1-11e8-83c8-59ef3dddab18.md]

On Friday, September 21st, Dr. Phillip “Jay” Storm joins the Biden Cancer Community Summit in Washington D.C. to present the Kids First Data Resource Center’s commitment to improving childhood disease research. 

“The Biden Cancer Initiative is a great opportunity to highlight the open access cloud-based platforms that the Center for Data Driven Discovery in Biomedicine at CHOP has built in partnership with the NIH to breakdown siloes, facilitate collaboration and accelerate discovery.” Dr. Phillip “Jay” Storm, Chief of the Division of Neurosurgery at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.

Vice President Joe Biden and Dr. Jill Biden are hosting the national Biden Cancer Summit to drive the urgency of now by promoting new solutions, bringing together problem solvers, and telling stories that epitomize what it means to be cancer FIERCE. The Summit in D.C. is the flagship event of more than 350 Biden Cancer Community Summits convening throughout September 21st, all focused on improving the cancer journey for patients, their families, and caregivers.

Dr. Storm will present the vision and mission of the Kids First Data Resource Center (DRC) highlight the Kids First DRC Portal and  one of the pediatric cancer datasets available in the Kids First Data Resource Portal, the Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas made possible by the Children’s Brain Tumor Tissue Consortium.

The Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas data set includes more than 1,000 subjects across 30 pediatric brain tumor types with genomic, proteomic and imaging data. 

<a href="https://portal.kidsfirstdrc.org/">The Kids First Data Resource Portal</a>  is open for registration to the public.  To learn more about the CBTTC visit <a href="https://cbttc.org/">https://cbttc.org</a>


#BidenCancerSummit #KidsFirstDRC #cbttc #PBTA #Collaboration4Cures 
