---
title: Hakon Hakonarson
date_tdt: 2018-07-18T13:28:25.023Z
author: ''
layout: default
permalink: /partners_investigators/
published: true
isPublic_b: true
type_txt: x01-investigator
name_txt: Hakon Hakonarson
link_txt: ''
logoRef_txt: __images/0db0f7c0-8a92-11e8-8c96-f558547ebf15.md
description_txt: ''
readMoreButton_txt: Read More
order_ti: 25
almaMater_txt: University of Pennsylvania

---


Hakon Hakonarson, M.D., Ph.D., is Director of the Center for Applied Genomics, Endowed Chair in Genomics Research and Professor of Pediatrics at The University of Pennsylvania, Perelman School of Medicine. Dr. Hakonarson received his MD and PhD from the University of Iceland, School of Medicine.   He leads a major commitment from CHOP to genomically characterize approximately 100,000 children, an initiative that has gained nationwide attention in the Wall Street Journal, New York Times, Time Magazine, Nature and Science. Dr. Hakonarson is a Principal Investigator within the Kids First Data Resource Center. 

Dr. Hakonarson has previously held several senior posts within the biopharmaceutical industry, directing a number of genomics and pharmacogenomics projects as vice president of Clinical Sciences and Development at deCODE genetics, Inc. Dr. Hakonarson has been the principal investigator (PI) on several National Institute of Health-sponsored grants, and he was co-PI on the Neurodevelopmental Genomics: Trajectories of Complex Phenotypes, the largest project ever supported by the National Institute of Mental Health.  Dr. Hakonarson recently completed a clinical biomarker study in ADHD demonstrating strong efficacy and safety of a neuromodulator compound in children with specific mutations in the glutamate metabotropic (mGluR) receptor family of genes with ADHD and Autism (www.ClinicalTrial.gov).

Dr. Hakonarson has published over 600 scientific papers, including numerous high-impact papers on genomic discoveries and their translations in some of the most prestigious scientific medical journals, including Nature, Nature Medicine, Nature Genetics, Cell and The New England Journal of Medicine. Time Magazine listed Dr. Hakonarson’s autism gene discovery project, reported in Nature in 2009, among the top 10 medical breakthroughs of that year. With over 18 years of experience in pioneering genomics research and genome-wide mapping and association studies,  Dr. Hakonarson has intimate
knowledge of the complexities of large-scale genomics and drug development projects, and he has put together the necessary infrastructure and workflow processes to unravel these complexities for optimized deliverables.




